[MUSIC]
We'll start off talking about the features
of Python that are very basic.
That are common to basically
all programming languages.
Algebraic expressions,
every programming language can parse
algebraic expressions and process them.
What we see down here in blue,
the blue background.
Those are some algebraic expressions
that have been evaluated by Python.
They've been typed into
the Python shell interactively.
So the three, greater than signs,
those are the prompt.
And so at the top 2+2 you type that in,
you hit Enter.
It returns four,
it prints out four, and so on.
So it has regular algebraic operations
that you can use in these algebraic
expressions.
And there's nothing uncommon about this.
So the shell can evaluate those.
Also there are other functions besides the
regular add, subtract, multiply, divide.
There are few other built in functions,
mathematical functions you can use.
Here are a few of them,
abs, A-B-S, absolute value.
Min, find the min between
a set of numbers.
Max, so forth.
So there are a pile of these mathematical
functions that you can use inside your
algebraic expressions.
Boolean expressions.
So Boolean expressions,
they're similar to algebraic expressions
except they return true or false.
They evaluate to true or false.
So you can see here two
less than four is true.
One greater than three is false.
And so on.
So there's greater than equal,
equal is a comparison.
Remember to distinguish equal
equal from single equal, right?
So a single equal is
a variable assignment, x = 3.
Where if you say x == 3 that's
a comparison that evaluates to true
or false.
But these are Boolean expressions,
you find these in all languages.
They involve comparison operators.
So greater than, less than, equal,
not equal, less than equal,
greater than equal, so
forth usually involve comparisons.
So, Boolean operators, Boolean meaning
things that evaluate to true false.
These are operators, basically they're
and, or, and not, are the basic ones.
There are other ones too but and,
or, not, the logic operators.
And these also evaluate to true or false.
They return true or false, but
their inputs are also true or false.
Are also Boolean, right.
So for instance here, take the and.
If you look at that first line 2<3 and
3<4 and it returns true.
So and in this case has two inputs.
This is in fixed notation.
So the and has two inputs.
The thing on the left, and
the thing on the right.
The thing on the left evaluated
to true two less than three.
The thing on the right evaluated to true.
And so, its result is true.
So these operators and, or, and not,
their inputs are Boolean, true and false.
And their outputs are Boolean true and
false.
You can see at the bottom.
Actually and, and or
take two inputs, not just takes one.
So if you look at not it just
says not of three less than four.
Three less than four is true, so not
of that is false then and returns that.
So that takes a single argument,
but the other ones are double, or
two arguments and
they're in fixed notations.
Where actually the not
is pre-fixed notation.
The word not is placed
before the argument.
But that's not how it is with and, and or.
Variables.
So like all, basically every other
high-level language there are variables.
And you can assign these
variables to values.
So, this is pretty straightforward, and
note the syntax difference
between this and C.
Remember how C, every assignment you'd
have to have a semicolon at the end right?
Not here, you just write it.
So variable types are not declared.
That's another difference between this and
C.
So that a, you can say x equals three on
the first line and you don't have to say,
x is an int, x is afloat.
It'll just use x as an int
because three is an int.
Interpreter determines the type by usage.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]